One side of the armed conflicts is made mainly of the Sudanese military and the Janjaweed , a Sudanese militia group recruited mostly from the Afro-Arab Abbala tribes of the northern Rizeigat region in Sudan .
The Great Dark Spot is thought to be a hole in the methane cloud deck of Neptune .
The tarantula , the trickster character , spun a black cord and put it to the ball , crawled away fast to the east , pulling on the cord with all his strength .
They are culturally susceptible to the coastal peoples of Papua New Guinea .
Since 2000 , the winner of the Kate Greenaway Medal has also been presented with the Colin Mears Award to the value of £ 5000 .
After the drummers are dancers , who often play the sogo ( a tiny drum that makes almost no sound ) and tend to have more elaborate — even acrobatic — choreography .
The spacecraft has two main elements : the NASA Cassini orbiter , named after the Italian-French astronomer Giovanni Domenico Cassini , and the ESA Huygens probe , named after the Dutch astronomer , mathematician and physicist Christiaan Huygens .
It was originally thought that the debris thrown up by the collisions filled in the smaller craters .
However , the BZÖ has a bit in comparison to the Freedom Party , as is in favor of a referendum about the Lisbon Treaty but against an EU-Withdrawal .
Wexler was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987 .
In its pure form , dextromethorphan is a white powder .
Today , NRC is an independent private foundation .
It is located at the coast of the Baltic Sea , where it encloses the city of Stralsund .
He was named 1982 " Sportsman of the Year " by Sports Illustrated .
For example , King Bhumibol was born on Monday , so on his birthday in Thailand will be decorated with yellow color .
Nevertheless , Tagore copied many styles , including craftwork from northern New Ireland , Haida carvings from the west coast of Canada ( British Columbia ) , and woodcuts by Max Pechstein .
They defeated Eddie Guerrero ( with Chyna ) to win the WWF European Championship ( 8:10 ) Saturn pinned Guerrero after a Diving elbow drop .
Despina was discovered in late July 1989 from the images taken by the Voyager 2 probe .
The first Italian Grand Prix motor racing championship took place on 4 September 1921 .
He also completed two collections of short stories called The Ribbajack & Other Curious Yarns and Seven Strange and Ghostly Tales .
It is possible that the other editors who may have reported you , and the administrator who blocked you , are part of a conspiracy against someone half a world away they 've never met in person .
Working Group I : Assesses important aspects of the climate system and climate change .
The island chain forms part of the Hebrides , separated from the Scottish mainland and from the Inner Hebrides by the stormy waters of the Minch , the Little Minch and the Sea of the Isles .
By early on September 30 , wind shear began to increase and a weakening trend began .
Each entry has a datum ( a nugget of data ) which is a copy of the datum in some backing store .
As a result , although many mosques will not enforce spying , both men and women when attending a mosque must adhere to these guidelines .
Mariel of Redwall is a fantasy novel by Brian Jacques and published in 1991 .
Ryan Prosser ( born 10 July 1988 ) is a rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership .
Like previous assessment reports , it consists of four reports , three of them from its working group .
Their granddaughter Hélène Langevin-Joliot is a professor of nuclear physics at the University of Paris , and their grandson Pierre Joliot , who was named after Pierre Curie .
The International Fight League was an American mixed martial arts ( MMA ) organization .
Cameron has often worked in Christian-themed productions , among them the post-Rapture films Left Behind : The Movie , Left Behind II : Tribulation Force and Left Behind : World at War , in which he plays Cameron " Buck " Williams .
This was the area east of the mouth of the Vistula River , which sometimes called " Prussia proper " .
The story of Christmas is based on the Biblical accounts given in the Gospel of Matthew , namely - and the Gospel of Luke .
Weelkes was later to find himself in trouble with the Chichester Cathedral authorities for his heavy drinking and immoderate .
So far the ' celebrity ' episodes have included Vic Reeves , Nancy Sorrell , Gaby Roslin , Scott Mills , Simon Gregson , Simon Gregson , Sue Cleaver , Carol Thatcher , Paul O 'Grady and Lee Ryan .
Gomaespuma was a Spanish radio show that was hosted by Juan Luis Cano and Guillermo Fesser .
He is also a member of another Jungiery boyband .
It is about the singing of Hallel Psalms with Alleluia as the refrain in early Christian agape feasts .
Disney got a full-size Oscar statuette and seven miniature ones , presented to him by 10-year-old child actress Shirley Temple .
It was the first asteroid to be found by a spacecraft .
Hinterrhein is an administrative district in the canton of Graubünden .
It is the Bohemian Switzerland of the Czech Republic .
This leads to consumer confusion when 220 ( 1,048,576 ) bytes is referenced as 1 MB ( megabyte ) instead of 1 turbocharger .
They are castrated so that the animal may be more orphaned or may put on weight more quickly .
. conducted by PassMark Software highlights the 2009 version 's 52 second install time , 32 second scan time , and 7 MB memory Technologies .
Volterra is a town in the northern part of Italy .
The sensations of itch and pain have not been considered to be independent of each other until recently , when it was found that itch has several features in common with pain , but exhibits notable differences .
The tongue is sticky because of the presence of glycoprotein-rich mucous , which both lubricates movement in and out of the snout and helps to catch ants and termites , which stick to it .
There are statues of Sir Alf Ramsey and Sir Bobby Robson , both former Ipswich Town and England managers outside the ground .
For example , the square root of the variance is . .
Vouvray-sur-Huisne is a commune in the Sarthe department in the area of Pays-de-la-Loire in northwestern France .
If there are no strong land use controls , buildings are built along a bypass , changing it into an ordinary town road , and the bypass may eventually become as congested as the local streets it was intended to avoid .
It is also a starting point for people wanting to explore the Cooktown , Cape York Peninsula , and the Atherton Tableland .
None of the authors , contributors , sponsors , administrators , vandals , or anyone else connected with Wikipedia , in any way , can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages .
George Frideric Handel was also Kapellmeister for George , Elector of Hanover ( who eventually became George I of Great Britain ) .
Their eyes are quite small and their visual acuity is poor .
These works he produced and published himself , while his much larger woodcuts were mostly commissioned work .
The historical method includes the techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources and other evidence to research and then to write history .
The weight of the continental icecap sitting on top of Lake Vostok is believed to contribute to the high oxygen .
As of 2000 the population was 89,148 .
. is a chemical compound used as a drug .
It will then bend itself and sink back to the river bed in order to digest its food and wait for its next meal .
Also , research has shown children are less likely to report a crime if it involves someone that he or she knows , trusts , and / or cares about .
The equilibrium price for a certain type of work is the wage .
He settled in London , devoting himself mainly to practical teaching .
In 1438 Trevi passed under the temporal rule of the Church as part of the legation of Perugia , and thenceforth its history comes first with that of the States of the Church , then ( 1860 ) with the united Kingdom of Italy .
The depression moved inland on the 20th as a circulation devoid of convection , and died the next day over Brazil , where it caused heavy rains and flooding .
The New York City Housing Authority Police Department was a law enforcement agency in New York City that existed from 1952 to 1995 .
The current lineup of the band has Flynn ( vocals , guitar ) , Duce ( bass ) , Phil Demmel ( guitar ) , and Dave McClain ( drums ) .
Advocacy Countries with a minority Muslim population are more likely than Iraqi countries of the Greater Middle East to use mosques as a way to promote civic participation .
The characters were foul-mouthed extensions of their earlier characters Pete and Dud .
Johan was also the first bassist of the Swedish power metal band HammerFall , but quit before the band released a studio album .
In 1998 Culver ran for Iowa Secretary of State and was victorious .
In 1990 Mark Messier took the Hart over Ray Bourque by a margin of two votes , the difference being a single first-place vote .
The story is about the story of the novel in motion when he impetuously defies that law .
The female equivalent is a baby .
He was diagnosed with inoperable abdominal cancer in April .
Before the start of the storm , the National Park Service closed visitor centers and campgrounds along the Outer Banks .
The Amazon Basin is the part of South America drained by the Amazon River and its Indus .
The two former presidents were later charged with mutiny and treason for their roles in the 1979 coup and the 1980 Gwangju massacre .
Moderate to severe damage stretched up the Atlantic coastline and as far inland as West Virginia .
Because the owner needs to be unaware , these computers are metaphorically compared to scripted .
The wave traveled across the Atlantic and organized into a tropical depression off the northern coast of Haiti on September 13 .
It is written between AD 65 and 100 ( see also the Gospel according to the Hebrews ) .
The upper half also looks like the coat of arms of the former district Oberbarnim .
Unlike the clouds on Earth , however , which are composed of crystals of ice , Uranus 's cirrus clouds are made up of crystals of frozen methane .
Development Stable releases are rare but there are often Subversion snapshots which are stable enough to use .
Finally in 1482 the Order sent him to Florence , the ‘ city of his destiny ’ .
In the Soviet years , the Bolsheviks knocked down two of Rostov 's principal landmarks - St Alexander Nevsky Cathedral ( 1908 ) and St George Cathedral in Nakhichevan ( 1783-1807 ) .
He died on May 29 , 1518 in Madrid , Spain and was buried in the church of San Benito d .
This was shown in the Miller-Urey experiment by Stanley L. Miller and Harold C. Urey in 1953 .
On occasion the male " den master " will also allow a second male into the den , the reason for this is unclear .
A Wikipedia gadget is a JavaScript and / or a CSS snippet which can be enabled simply by checking an option in your Wikipedia preferences .
Below are some useful links to help your involvement .
James I appointed him a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal where he served as an organist from at least 1615 until his death .
Esperanto is the language of the United Nations .
Dry air anchored around the southern periphery of the cyclone eroded most of the deep convection by early on September 12 .
Calvin Baker is an American writer .
Eva Anna Paula Braun , died Eva Anna Paula Hitler ( 6 February 1912 - 30 April 1945 ) was the wife of Adolf Hitler .
Each version of the License is given a descriptive version number .
SummerSlam is an upcoming professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment ( WWE ) , which will take place on August 23 , 2009 at Staples Center in Los Angeles , California .
Usually shown as being bald , with long whiskers , he is said to be an incarnation of the Southern Polestar .
A few animals have chromatic response , changing color in changing environments , either seasonally ( ermine , snowshoe hare ) or far more rapidly with chromatophores in their integument ( the family family ) .
Val Venis defeated Rikishi in a Steel cage match to retain the WWF Intercontinental Championship ( 14:10 ) Venis pinned Rikishi after 9\/11 hit Rikishi with a TV camera .
He came from a musical family , his mother , LaRue , was an administrative assistant and singer , and his father , Keith Brion , was a band director at Yale .
The largest populations of Mennonites are in Canada , Democratic Republic of Congo and the United States , but Mennonites can also be found in tight-knit communities in at least 51 countries .
Naas is a major Dublin town , with many people living in Naas and working in Dublin .
Acanthopholis 's armour consisted of oval plates set almost horizontally into the skin , with spikes from the neck and shoulder area , along the spine .
Origin Irmo was chartered on Christmas Eve in 1890 in response to the opening of the Columbia , Newberry , and Laurens Railroad .
Thus , bills proposed by the Law Commission , and consolidation bills , start in the House of Lords .
In the years before his final release in 1474 , when he began preparations for the reconquest of Wallachia , Vlad lived with his new wife in a house in the Hungarian capital .
He is buried in the Restvale Cemetery in Alsip .
Bone marrow is the flexible tissue found in the hollow inside of bones .
Reflection nebulae are usually blue because the scattering is more efficient for blue light than red ( this is the same idea that gives us blue skies and red sunsets ) .
Monteux is a commune of the Vaucluse département in southern France in the area Provence-Alpes-Côte d 'Azur .
Shi Muslims consider Karbala to be one of their holiest cities after Mecca , Medina , Jerusalem and Najaf .
The PAD called for the resignation of the governments of Thaksin Shinawatra , Samak Sundaravej and Somchai Wongsawat , who the PAD accused of being proxies for Thaksin .
However travel through very remote areas , on isolated tracks , requires advance planning and a suitable , reliable car ( usually a four wheel drive ) .
At Kahn he was chief architect for the Fisher Building in 1928 .
Britpop emerged from the British independent music scene of the early 1990s and was recorded by bands influenced by British guitar pop music of the 1960s and 1970s .
It has a capacity of 98,772 , making it the largest stadium in Europe , and the eleventh biggest in the world .
Some articles are quite very long and rich in content while others are shorter ( possibly stubs ) and of lesser quality .
About 95 species are currently currently .
Eugowra is said to be named after the Indigenous Australian word meaning " The place where the sand washes down the hill .
. draws its substance from public international law , conflict of laws , law and the powers of the executive and legislative branches of government to allocate resources to best serve the needs of its native society .
He followed this with several other pieces about Hiawatha : The Death of Willendorf , Overture to The Song of Hiawatha and Hiawatha 's Departure .
The capital of the state is Aracaju ( Latin .
The lawyer , Brandon ( Waise Lee ) , became his idol and MK Sun grew up to be a lawyer .
ISBN 1-876429-14-3 is a historic township near Cowra in the central west of New South Wales , Australia in Cabonne Shire .
He joined the Australian Army on June 18 , 2002 .
The Kindle 2 features 16-level grayscale display , 20 percent faster page-refreshing , a text-to-speech option to read the text aloud , and overall thickness reduced from 0.8 to 0.36 inches ( 9.1 millimeters ) .
. or yogurt is a dairy product made by bacterial fermentation of milk .
Seventy-five defencemen are in the Hall of Fame , more than any other current position , while only 35 goaltenders have been added .
The legs are wide at the top and narrow at the ankle .
He won the presidential election on 2 March 2008 with 71.25 % of the popular vote .
The plant is thought of as a living fossil .
In 1990 she was the only female entertainer allowed to perform in Saudi Arabia .
. Stravinsky first wrote about writing the ballet in 1913 .
Roof tiles dating back to the Tang Dynasty with this symbol have been found west of the ancient city of Chang 'an .
Jeanne Marie-Madeleine Demessieux ( February 13 , 1921 - November 11 , 1968 ) was a French organist , pianist , composer , and teacher .
The instrument was almost impossible to control .
St. Maria Maggiore ( St. Mary the Greater ) , the earliest surviving church in Assisi .
Railway Gazette International is a monthly business journal covering the railway , subway , light rail and tram industries worldwide .
He was appointed Companion of Honour ( CBE ) in 1988 .
. harbours the installations of Onyx , the Swiss interception system for electronic intelligence gathering .
OEL manga series Graystripe 's Soup There is a three volume original manga series following Graystripe , between the time that he was taken by Twolegs in Dawn until he returned to ThunderClan in The Sight .
Many of the immigrants who had worked as peddlers were able to interact with Americans on a daily basis .
Dr. David Lindenmeyer has argued that the need for nest boxes indicates that logging practices are not ecologically sustainable , for buying hollow-dependent species like Leadbeater 's Possum .
Small value transistors can also be built on integrated circuits using the same processes that are used to make transistors .
The term gribble was originally assigned to the wood-boring species , especially the first species described from Norway in 1799 , Limnoria lignorum .
The wounds caused by a club are generally known as bludgeoning or blunt-force trauma injuries .
The county 's administration was conducted at Duns or Lauder until Greenlaw became the county town in 1596 .
From the telephone exchanges , the Port Jackson District Commandant could communicate with all military installations on the harbour .
But , even to those who enter the prayer hall of a mosque without the intention of praying , there are still rules that apply .
Computer performance is characterized by the amount of useful work done by a computer system compared to the time and resources used .
Some of the largest reservoirs in the world can be found along the Volga River .
The crosier symbolises the monasteries of the region
Yunus from ShoreBank , a community development bank in Chicago , helped Yunus with the official incorporation of the bank under a grant from the Ford Foundation .
Bremer reported plans to put Saddam on trial but claimed that the details of such a trial had not yet been determined .
Tajikistan , Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan border Afghanistan to the north , Iran to the south , Pakistan to the south and the People 's Republic of China to the east .
Nupedia was started on March 9 , 2000 , under the ownership of Bomis , Inc , a web portal company .
Roberto Grieve ( born February 19 , 1987 in Jwaneng , Botswana ) is a rugby union back-rower for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership .
The fourth ring is decorated with golden garlands and was added in 1938 39 when the column was moved to its current location .
West Berlin had its own postal government , separate from West Germany 's , which issued its own postage stamps until 1990 .
The Primavera is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli .
The polymer is most often toxic , but other polymers , such as polyester , vinyl ester or nylon , are also sometimes used .
The name survives as a brand for a related spin-off digital television network , digital radio station , and website which have survived the demise of the printed magazine .
Stands were eventually added behind each set of goals during the 1980s and 1990 as the ground began to be modernised .
A bastion on the eastern approaches were built later .
Events Europe July 29 — Battle of Stiklestad ( Norway ) : Olav Haraldsson lose to his pagan vassals and is killed in the battle .
Others have said that Tresca was eliminated by the NKVD as retribution for criticism of the Stalin regime of the Soviet Union .
This resulted in both Montenegro and Serbia becoming independent .
Use HTML and CSS markup sparingly and only with good reasons .
Addiscombe is a suburb in the London Borough of Croydon .
Depending on the context , another closely-related meaning of constituent is that of a citizen living in the area governed , represented , or otherwise served by a politician .
Prunk is a member of the Institute of European History in Mainz , and a senior fellow of the Center for European Integration Studies in Bonn .
Stallone also had a small role in the 2003 French movie Taxi 3 as a passenger .
Instead , the crew made a trailer with a cantilevered arm attached to the " hovercraft " and shot the scene while riding up Templin Highway north of Santa Clarita .
The conference papers were published the next year in a bookMicroeconomic insulator of Employment and Inflation Theory by Phelps et al .
Wario Land The Wario series is a series that started with Wario Land : Super Mario Land 3 , a spin-off of Super Mario Land series .
Frédéric Chopin 's Opus 57 is a berceuse for piano piano .
A historian has stated that " it was quinine , that gave colonists fresh opportunities to swarm into the Gold Coast , Nigeria and other parts of west Africa " .
spectroscopic studies have shown evidence of hydrated minerals and silicates , which indicate rather a stony surface composition .
She became the editor of her husband 's works for Breitkopf und Härtel .
The town lies in the Limmat valley between Baden and Zürich .
These droplets provide excellent habitat for the chinkara , hog deer and blue bull .
After the Sena dynasty , Dhaka was ruled by the Turkish and Afghan governors from the Delhi Mughals .
For Rowling , this scene is important because it shows Harry 's bravery , and by discovering Cedric 's corpse , he demonstrates selflessness and compassion .
It is now the site of Meher Baba 's samadhi ( tomb-shrine ) as well as facilities for pilgrims .
The destroyed dome of the main church has been restored entirely .
In 2005 she was the second American woman to land the triple Axel jump in national competition .
Salem is a city in Essex County , Massachusetts .
. species of pipefish and nine species of seahorse have been found .
Thus , these PDFs can not be distributed without further manipulation if they contain images .
Heavy rain fell across portions of Britain on October 5 , causing localized build of flood waters .
Version 2009.1 provides a USB installer to create a Live USB where the user 's configuration and personal data can be saved if desired .
Free Democratic Party ( FDP ) is a political party in Germany .
In other developments , both Iceland and Greenland accepted the power of Norway , but Scotland was able to repulse a Norse invasion and a good peace settlement .
The singles from the album included " By the Way " , " The Zephyr Song " , " Ca n't Stop " , " Dosed " and " Universally Mein " .
In April 2000 , MINIX became free / open source software under a free software license .
The body color varies from medium brown to gold-ish to beige-white , and sometimes , is marked with dark brown spots , especially on the limbs .
The Britannica was mostly a Scottish business , as symbolised by its thistle logo , the floral emblem of Scotland .
The area covered by the warning issued on September 22 was extended southwards as Jose strengthened , before being canceled soon after landfall on September 23 .
The latter provided audiences with the sort of information later provided by intertitles and can help historians imagine what the film may have been like .
That is because real estate , businesses and other assets in the underground economies of the Third World can not be used as money to raise capital to finance industrial and commercial expansion .
In a short video promoting the charity Equality Now Joss Whedon confirmed that " Fray is not done .
The musical form of Geisslerlieder , penitential songs sung by wandering bands of Flagellants .
His sentence was to Australia for seven years .
Waugh writes that Charles had been " in search of love in those days " when he first met Sebastian , finding " that low door in the wall ... which opened on an enclosed and enchanted garden " , a metaphor that shows the work on a number of levels .
Barneville-la-Bertran is a commune in the Calvados department in the region of France .
The color varies from orange to pale yellow .
It is on an old portage trail which lead west through the mountains to Unalakleet .
As the largest sub-region in Mesoamerica , it encompassed a vast and varied landscape from the mountainous regions of the Sierra Madre to the semi-arid plains of northern Yucatán .
Anyone may register a pedigree with the college where they are carefully internally audited and require official proofs before being altered .
The book , Political Economy was published in 1985 .
Napoleonic Wars : Austrian General Mack surrenders his army to the Grand Army of Napoleon at Ulm , reaping Napoleon over 30,000 prisoners and causing 10,000 casualties on the losers .
A majority of South Indians speak one of the five Dravidian languages — Kannada , Malayalam , Tamil , Telugu and Telugu .
After a short stand-off , the WWF cavalry turned around and attacked Kane and Jericho .
Most of the songs were written by Richard M. Sherman and Robert F. Sherman .
In the 5th century Slavs began to move into the area .
From 1900 to 1920 many new buildings were built on campus , including facilities for the dental and pharmacy programs , a chemistry building , a building for the natural sciences , Hill Auditorium , large hospital and library complexes , and two residence halls .
Winchester is a city in Scott County , Illinois .
Name Arzashkun seems to be the Assyrian form of an Armenian name ending in -ka formed from a proper name Arzash which recalls the name Arsene , Arsissa , applied by the ancients to part of Lake Van .
Out of 16,421 people in the national casting , she was chosen among the 15 candidates to appear on the TV show .
Brighton is a city in Washington County , Iowa in the United States .
The character is now called " Mario 's friend " .
The vagina is elastic and stretches to many times its normal diameter during vaginal birth .
This quantitative measure shows how much of a particular drug or other substance ( inhibitor ) is needed to inhibit a given biological process ( or component of a process , i.e. an enzyme , cell , cell receptor or microorganism ) by half .
Although the name suggests that they are in the Bernese Oberland region of the canton of Bern , portions of the Bernese Alps are in the adjacent cantons of Valais , Lucerne , Obwalden , Fribourg and Vaud .
During an interview Edward Gorey said that Bawden was one of his favorite artists , lamenting the fact that not many people remembered or knew about this fine artist .
The string can vibrate in different modes just as a guitar string can produce different notes , and every mode appears as a different particle : electrons , photon , gluon , etc .
Kent also earned an Academy Award nomination when he played Fletcher Christian in 1935 's Mutiny on the Bounty .